The code in this repo (https://github.com/moonshine-ai/moonshine-js-webrtc)
and the English-language Moonshine speech to text model it uses are released 
under the Apache License, Version 2.0. See SECTION 1 for terms.

The Spanish-language speech to text model is released under the Moonshine 
AI Community License for researchers, developers, small businesses, and 
creators with less than $1M in annual revenue. See SECTION 2 for terms.

SECTION 1 -----------------------------------------------------------------

                                 Apache License
                           Version 2.0, January 2004
                        http://www.apache.org/licenses/

   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

   1. Definitions.

      "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,
      and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

      "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by
      the copyright owner that is granting the License.

      "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all
      other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common
      control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,
      "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the
      direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or
      otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
      outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

      "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity
      exercising permissions granted by this License.

      "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
      including but not limited to software source code, documentation
      source, and configuration files.

      "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical
      transformation or translation of a Source form, including but
      not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation,
      and conversions to other media types.

      "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or
      Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a
      copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work
      (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

      "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object
      form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the
      editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications
      represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes
      of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain
      separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,
      the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

      "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including
      the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions
      to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally
      submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner
      or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of
      the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"
      means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent
      to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to
      communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,
      and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the
      Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but
      excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise
      designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."

      "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity
      on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and
      subsequently incorporated within the Work.

   2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,
      publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the
      Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

   3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,
      use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,
      where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable
      by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their
      Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)
      with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You
      institute patent litigation against any entity (including a
      cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work
      or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct
      or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses
      granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate
      as of the date such litigation is filed.

   4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the
      Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without
      modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You
      meet the following conditions:

      (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or
          Derivative Works a copy of this License; and

      (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices
          stating that You changed the files; and

      (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works
          that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and
          attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,
          excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of
          the Derivative Works; and

      (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its
          distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must
          include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained
          within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not
          pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one
          of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed
          as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or
          documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,
          within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and
          wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents
          of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and
          do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution
          notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside
          or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided
          that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed
          as modifying the License.

      You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and
      may provide additional or different license terms and conditions
      for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or
      for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,
      reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with
      the conditions stated in this License.

   5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,
      any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work
      by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of
      this License, without any additional terms or conditions.
      Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify
      the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed
      with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

   6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade
      names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,
      except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the
      origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

   7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or
      agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each
      Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,
      WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
      implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions
      of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A
      PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the
      appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any
      risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

   8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,
      whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise,
      unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly
      negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be
      liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special,
      incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a
      result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the
      Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,
      work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all
      other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor
      has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

   9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing
      the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer,
      and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity,
      or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this
      License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only
      on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf
      of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify,
      defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability
      incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason
      of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

   END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

   APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work.

      To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following
      boilerplate notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]"
      replaced with your own identifying information. (Don't include
      the brackets!)  The text should be enclosed in the appropriate
      comment syntax for the file format. We also recommend that a
      file or class name and description of purpose be included on the
      same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier
      identification within third-party archives.

   Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.




SECTION 2 -----------------------------------------------------------------

 MOONSHINE AI COMMUNITY LICENSE AGREEMENT 
 
 Last Updated: June 15th, 2025


I. INTRODUCTION

This Agreement applies to any individual person or entity ("You", "Your" or
"Licensee") that uses or distributes any portion or element of the Moonshine AI
Materials or Derivative Works thereof for any Research & Non-Commercial or
Commercial purpose. Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein are defined
in Section V below.


This Agreement is intended to allow research, non-commercial, and limited
commercial uses of the Models free of charge. In order to ensure that certain
limited commercial uses of the Models continue to be allowed, this Agreement
preserves free access to the Models for people or organizations generating
annual revenue of less than US $1,000,000 (or local currency equivalent). 


By clicking "I Accept" or by using or distributing or using any portion or
element of the Stability Materials or Derivative Works, You agree that You have
read, understood and are bound by the terms of this Agreement. If You are acting
on behalf of a company, organization or other entity, then "You" includes you
and that entity, and You agree that You: (i) are an authorized representative of
such entity with the authority to bind such entity to this Agreement, and (ii)
You agree to the terms of this Agreement on that entity's behalf. 

II. RESEARCH & NON-COMMERCIAL USE LICENSE

Subject to the terms of this Agreement, Moonshine AI grants You a non-exclusive,
worldwide, non-transferable, non-sublicensable, revocable and royalty-free
limited license under Moonshine AI's intellectual property or other rights owned
by Moonshine AI embodied in the Moonshine AI Materials to use, reproduce,
distribute, and create Derivative Works of, and make modifications to, the
Moonshine AI Materials for any Research or Non-Commercial Purpose. "Research
Purpose" means academic or scientific advancement, and in each case, is not
primarily intended for commercial advantage or monetary compensation to You or
others. "Non-Commercial Purpose" means any purpose other than a Research Purpose
that is not primarily intended for commercial advantage or monetary compensation
to You or others, such as personal use (i.e., hobbyist) or evaluation and
testing. 

III. COMMERCIAL USE LICENSE

Subject to the terms of this Agreement (including the remainder of this Section
III), Moonshine AI grants You a non-exclusive, worldwide, non-transferable,
non-sublicensable, revocable and royalty-free limited license under Moonshine
AI's intellectual property or other rights owned by Moonshine AI embodied in the
Moonshine AI Materials to use, reproduce, distribute, and create Derivative
Works of, and make modifications to, the Moonshine AI Materials for any
Commercial Purpose. "Commercial Purpose" means any purpose other than a Research
Purpose or Non-Commercial Purpose that is primarily intended for commercial
advantage or monetary compensation to You or others, including but not limited
to, (i) creating, modifying, or distributing Your product or service, including
via a hosted service or application programming interface, and (ii) for Your
business's or organization's internal operations. If You are using or
distributing the Moonshine AI Materials for a Commercial Purpose, You must
register with Moonshine AI at (https://moonshine.ai/community-license). If at
any time You or Your Affiliate(s), either individually or in aggregate, generate
more than USD $1,000,000 in annual revenue (or the equivalent thereof in Your
local currency), regardless of whether that revenue is generated directly or
indirectly from the Moonshine AI Materials or Derivative Works, any licenses
granted to You under this Agreement shall terminate as of such date. You must
request a license from Moonshine AI at (https://moonshine.ai/enterprise) , which
Moonshine AI may grant to You in its sole discretion. If you receive Moonshine
AI Materials, or any Derivative Works thereof, from a Licensee as part of an
integrated end user product, then Section III of this Agreement will not apply
to you.

IV. GENERAL TERMS

Your Research, Non-Commercial, and Commercial License(s) under this Agreement
are subject to the following terms. a. Distribution & Attribution. If You
distribute or make available the Moonshine AI Materials or a Derivative Work to
a third party, or a product or service that uses any portion of them, You shall:
(i) provide a copy of this Agreement to that third party, (ii) retain the
following attribution notice within a "Notice" text file distributed as a part
of such copies: "This Moonshine AI Model is licensed under the Moonshine AI
Community License, Copyright © Moonshine AI Ltd. All Rights Reserved", and (iii)
prominently display "Powered by Moonshine AI" on a related website, user
interface, blogpost, about page, or product documentation. If You create a
Derivative Work, You may add your own attribution notice(s) to the "Notice" text
file included with that Derivative Work, provided that You clearly indicate
which attributions apply to the Moonshine AI Materials and state in the "Notice"
text file that You changed the Moonshine AI Materials and how it was modified.
b. Use Restrictions. Your use of the Moonshine AI Materials and Derivative
Works, including any output or results of the Moonshine AI Materials or
Derivative Works, must comply with applicable laws and regulations (including
Trade Control Laws and equivalent regulations) and adhere to the Documentation
and Moonshine AI's AUP, which is hereby incorporated by reference. Furthermore,
You will not use the Moonshine AI Materials or Derivative Works, or any output
or results of the Moonshine AI Materials or Derivative Works, to create or
improve any foundational generative AI model (excluding the Models or Derivative
Works). c. Intellectual Property. (i) Trademark License. No trademark licenses
are granted under this Agreement, and in connection with the Moonshine AI
Materials or Derivative Works, You may not use any name or mark owned by or
associated with Moonshine AI or any of its Affiliates, except as required under
Section IV(a) herein. (ii) Ownership of Derivative Works. As between You and
Moonshine AI, You are the owner of Derivative Works You create, subject to
Moonshine AI's ownership of the Moonshine AI Materials and any Derivative Works
made by or for Moonshine AI. (iii) Ownership of Outputs. As between You and
Moonshine AI, You own any outputs generated from the Models or Derivative Works
to the extent permitted by applicable law. (iv) Disputes. If You or Your
Affiliate(s) institute litigation or other proceedings against Moonshine AI
(including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the
Moonshine AI Materials, Derivative Works or associated outputs or results, or
any portion of any of the foregoing, constitutes infringement of intellectual
property or other rights owned or licensable by You, then any licenses granted
to You under this Agreement shall terminate as of the date such litigation or
claim is filed or instituted. You will indemnify and hold harmless Moonshine AI
from and against any claim by any third party arising out of or related to Your
use or distribution of the Moonshine AI Materials or Derivative Works in
violation of this Agreement. (v) Feedback. From time to time, You may provide
Moonshine AI with verbal and/or written suggestions, comments or other feedback
related to Moonshine AI's existing or prospective technology, products or
services (collectively, "Feedback"). You are not obligated to provide Moonshine
AI with Feedback, but to the extent that You do, You hereby grant Moonshine AI a
perpetual, irrevocable, royalty-free, fully-paid, sub-licensable, transferable,
non-exclusive, worldwide right and license to exploit the Feedback in any manner
without restriction. Your Feedback is provided "AS IS" and You make no
warranties whatsoever about any Feedback. d. Disclaimer Of Warranty. UNLESS
REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE MOONSHINE AI MATERIALS AND ANY OUTPUT AND
RESULTS THEREFROM ARE PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OF ANY
KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES
OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE. YOU ARE SOLELY RESPONSIBLE FOR DETERMINING THE APPROPRIATENESS OR
LAWFULNESS OF USING OR REDISTRIBUTING THE MOONSHINE AI MATERIALS, DERIVATIVE
WORKS OR ANY OUTPUT OR RESULTS AND ASSUME ANY RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH YOUR USE OF
THE MOONSHINE AI MATERIALS, DERIVATIVE WORKS AND ANY OUTPUT AND RESULTS. e.
Limitation Of Liability. IN NO EVENT WILL MOONSHINE AI OR ITS AFFILIATES BE
LIABLE UNDER ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT, NEGLIGENCE,
PRODUCTS LIABILITY, OR OTHERWISE, ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT, FOR ANY LOST
PROFITS OR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, INCIDENTAL, EXEMPLARY
OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES, EVEN IF MOONSHINE AI OR ITS AFFILIATES HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF
THE POSSIBILITY OF ANY OF THE FOREGOING. f. Term And Termination. The term of
this Agreement will commence upon Your acceptance of this Agreement or access to
the Moonshine AI Materials and will continue in full force and effect until
terminated in accordance with the terms and conditions herein. Moonshine AI may
terminate this Agreement if You are in breach of any term or condition of this
Agreement. Upon termination of this Agreement, You shall delete and cease use of
any Moonshine AI Materials or Derivative Works. Section IV(d), (e), and (g)
shall survive the termination of this Agreement. g. Governing Law. This
Agreement will be governed by and constructed in accordance with the laws of the
United States and the State of California without regard to choice of law
principles, and the UN Convention on Contracts for International Sale of Goods
does not apply to this Agreement.

V. DEFINITIONS 

"Affiliate(s)" means any entity that directly or indirectly controls, is
controlled by, or is under common control with the subject entity; for purposes
of this definition, "control" means direct or indirect ownership or control of
more than 50% of the voting interests of the subject entity. "Agreement" means
this Moonshine AI Community License Agreement. "AUP" means the Moonshine AI
Acceptable Use Policy available at https://moonshine.ai/use-policy, as may be
updated from time to time. "Derivative Work(s)" means (a) any derivative work of
the Moonshine AI Materials as recognized by U.S. copyright laws and (b) any
modifications to a Model, and any other model created which is based on or
derived from the Model or the Model's output, including"fine tune" and "low-rank
adaptation" models derived from a Model or a Model's output, but do not include
the output of any Model. "Documentation" means any specifications, manuals,
documentation, and other written information provided by Moonshine AI related to
the Software or Models. "Model(s)" means, collectively, Moonshine AI's
proprietary models and algorithms, including machine-learning models, trained
model weights and other elements of the foregoing listed on Stability's Core
Models Webpage available at, https://moonshine.ai/core-models, as may be updated
from time to time. " Moonshine AI" or "we" means Moonshine AI Ltd. and its
Affiliates. "Software" means Moonshine AI's proprietary software made available
under this Agreement now or in the future. " Moonshine AI Materials" means,
collectively, Stability's proprietary Models, Software and Documentation (and
any portion or combination thereof) made available under this Agreement. "Trade
Control Laws" means any applicable U.S. and non-U.S. export control and trade
sanctions laws and regulations.
